NARRATOR:
Somewhere, hidden
amongst thorny brambles,
is a little kingdom
of elves and fairies.
Everyone who lives here
is very, very small.
I'm Ben Elf.
[BLOWS HORN]
[BARKS]
And I'm Princess Holly.
[GIGGLES]
Come on, let's play.
Wait for us.
[BOTH GIGGLING]
[NARRATOR READS ONSCREEN TEXT]
[♪♪♪]
NARRATOR:
Today's adventure starts
at the Little Castle.
[BEN READS ONSCREEN TEXT]
[DOORBELL RINGS]
Hi, Ben.
Hi, Holly.
Are you ready
to come camping?
Yes, please.
Um, why have you brought
an orange?
It's to scare off gnomes.
You know what they say,
to scare off a gnome,
bring an orange from home.
What's wrong with gnomes?
Oh, you don't want to bring
a gnome on a camping trip.
They talk and talk
and talk and talk.
Yes,
gnomes are just like elves.
Absolutely not.
Gnomes are greedy,
boring creatures
who talk and talk and talk
and talk and--
Goodness.
Look at the time.
We really should be going.
Bye, Mommy and Daddy.
Bye, Nanny.
Goodbye.
KING:
Have fun.
NANNY:
Watch out for those gnomes!
MRS. ELF:
Don't worry!
We've got our orange!
Here's the timetable.
One, set up camp.
Two, hang up washing.
Three, make a campfire.
Four--
Dad, we're on holiday.
Try to relax, Mr. Elf.
I'll do my best,
Mrs. Elf.
Here we are.
BEN & HOLLY:
Yipedee doo-dah!
[BOTH LAUGH]
Will there be any dancing?
Can we sing songs?
There will be no dancing
or singing.
Just camping.
Here's the tent.
Shall I magic the tent up
for us, Mr. Elf?
Holly, I'd rather you didn't do
any magicking.
Remember,
this is an elf camp.
Elves have been camping
for hundreds of years.
We can put tents up
with our eyes closed.
Wow!
One elf tent. ]
Hooray!
Lovely.
Now we're on holiday.
Yes. And that means
there's holiday work to be done.
Holiday work?
Next on the list,
hang out the washing.
But we've only
just arrived.
Why do you need to hang out
the washing?
A campsite can never be
too clean and tidy.
I'll slice the orange.
Mrs. Elf, how do oranges
keep gnomes away?
It's the smell.
Gnomes hate the smell
of oranges.
Oh.
There. Now we're safe.
Next on the list,
collect sticks
for the campfire.
Here are some sticks.
Here are some more.
Okay,
that's enough sticks.
[MR. ELF WHISTLING]
[BEN & HOLLY LAUGHING]
[ALL GASP]
Hello there.
A gnome!
[BELCHES]
Mind if I join you?
Uh, well...
Thank you.
I'll only stay
for a week or two.
Oh, no.
But we had an orange.
Yes.
I wouldn't have found you
if it weren't
for the smell of this orange.
But gnomes hate oranges.
Normally, yes.
But I'm on a balanced diet,
you see.
If I eat 10 pies
and 20 steamed puddings,
I need to balance that
by eating fruit.
[SIGHS]
Let's make a fire.
How do you make a fire,
Mr. Elf?
Rub two sticks together
really fast.
Like this:
[GRUNTING]
You have to rub the sticks
a little bit faster.
[GRUNTING]
Would you like to hear
the interesting thing
I know about sticks?
[SIGHS]
Sticks grow on trees.
Amazing, isn't it?
[BOTH LAUGH]
BOTH:
Ooh.
I'm nice and warm now.
That's because fire is hot.
[BEN & HOLLY LAUGH]
[SIGHS]
I'm hungry.
Me too.
What a surprise.
I've hardly eaten anything
today.
I've only had 10 pies,
a skipful of chips,
30 apple tarts...
Wow! That's a lot.
...a sponge cake,
a hundred sausages,
and that orange.
I thought you said
you were on a diet?
Ho, ho, I am.
There are some things
I don't eat.
Like stones, wood
and television sets.
But nobody eats
those things.
What,
you're on this diet too?
I never knew
it was so popular.
What's for dinner,
Mrs. Elf?
Cheese and onion pie.
Ooh, thank you very muchly.
[MUNCHING]
That's tasty.
Yes, it's scrummy.
Ho, ho! Very good.
[OWL HOOTS]
What's that?
[TINKLES]
[OWL HOOTING]
It's an owl.
[HOOTING]
It's got very big eyes.
Would you like me to tell you
an amazing fact about owls?
Um...
GNOME:
I'll take that as a "yes."
The owl is in fact a bird.
It has big eyes
for seeing things.
[BOTH LAUGH]
6:00. Time for bed.
BOTH:
Oh.
I'll put the fire out.
Can't you leave it
to keep the owl warm?
It's dangerous to leave
a fire going, Princess Holly.
That's right.
♪ Don't go to bed
Till the fire is out ♪
♪ And don't go to bed
With a carrot on your head ♪
[BOTH LAUGH]
That's silly.
Ben, Holly, you get in the tent
and go to sleep.
Mr. Gnome,
you have to go home.
But we're having fun.
Elf camping is not meant
to be fun.
Bedtime is at 6:00,
not the middle of the night.
Ho, ho. I know a song
about the middle of the night.
Would you like to hear it?
BOTH:
No!
I'll take that as a "yes."
[GUITAR PLAYING]
♪ In the middle of the night
The stars twinkle bright ♪
♪ Rinky dinky doo
Rinky diddley dee ♪
♪ Dooby dooby doo
Dibbly dibbly dee ♪
[BOTH LAUGH]
Altogether now.
ALL:
♪ Rinky dinky doo ♪
♪ Rinky diddley dee ♪
♪ Dooby dooby doo ♪
♪ Dibbly dibbly dee ♪
Time for bed.
It was lovely meeting you,
Mr. Gnome,
but now we need to get
some sleep.
Oh, yes. A good night's sleep
is very important.
♪ Rinky dinky doo
Rinky diddley dee ♪
♪ Dooby dooby doo
Dibbly dibbly dee ♪
♪ Rinky dinky doo-- ♪
MR. ELF: Stop!
Stop!
Would you like me to stop?
Yes. And please go.
Would you like me to go?
Yes! Goodbye.
Ho, ho! Sleep well.
See you in the morning.
Ha, ha.
Mr. Gnome is funny.
He is silly.
Yes, really silly.
[BOTH LAUGH]
Good night, everyone.
[IN UNISON]
Good night.
[ALL SNORING]
[OWL HOOTING]
[♪♪♪]
[CLANKING AND RATTLING]
Ah. It's the gnome.
He's come back
to eat our breakfast.
Aah! A mole.
[SQUEAKING]
Aah!
It's eating our washing.
Shoo! Shoo!
Go away, mole!
Princess Holly,
do you know a magic spell
to get rid of moles?
I'm sorry, Mr. Elf, I don't.
[CHOMPING]
Oh, dear. Think, Mr. Elf.
What gets rid of moles?
Hello.
[SQUEAKING]
ALL:
Hooray!
Yes.
Moles don't like us gnomes.
No idea why.
Uh, thank you,
Mr. Gnome,
for, uh, saving our campsite
from the mole.
That's all right.
What's for breakfast?
The mole ate all the food.
Oh, dear.
Good morning.
[IN UNISON]
Nanny Plum!
How was your night?
It was very strange.
Mr. Gnome turned up,
and he loves oranges.
And Mr. Gnome sang a funny song
called "Rinky Dinky Doo."
Then a mole came along
and ate our washing line
and all our food.
And now we haven't
any breakfast.
Yes.
I thought that might happen.
That's why I've brought
the magic picnic basket.
Breakfast for everyone!
ALL:
Hooray!
Oh, I'm actually
very hungry.
Oh.
Have you not eaten either?
Not today.
Oh, dear, it's empty.
[GIGGLES]
It isn't empty.
It's a magic picnic basket.
Magic basket, please
Breakfast for everyone
ALL:
Hooray!
I get the idea.
Magic basket, please
Twenty poached eggs
Lots of toast
Nine jars of jam
Forty sausages
And 90 pancakes
ALL:
Yippee!
What a splendid breakfast.
Thank you, Mr. Gnome.
Breakfast is one of the things
gnomes know a lot about.
[BOTH LAUGHING]
Mm. Yummy, yummy.
Ho, ho.
Oh. I almost forgot
my balanced diet.
I shouldn't be eating
all this
without also eating
an orange.
[ALL LAUGHING]
NARRATOR:
Today's adventure starts
at the Little Castle.
[HOLLY READS ONSCREEN TEXT]
Nanny Plum, your pie mash
and chips is delicious.
What's for pudding?
I hope it's not too heavy.
Treacle sponge pudding
with blancmange and custard.
ALL: Hooray!
Excellent.
Nanny Plum is the best cook
in the Little Kingdom.
I say
Nanny Plum is the best cook
in the whole world.
Oh. Thank you, Your Majesty.
[PHONE RINGING]
Hello?
Hello.
Queen Marigold here.
[WHISPERING]
It's King and Queen Marigold.
Oh, no.
They're so boring
and snooty.
We were just eating
a lovely meal
of spinach with sea foam,
when we thought
how nice it would be
if you joined us
for dinner tomorrow.
They've invited us
Oh, no.
Don't worry,
I'll handle this.
Sorry,
we can't come for dinner.
Oh, dear. What a shame.
I know you hardly ever
get to eat good food.
What? I'll have you know
we have the best cook
in the whole world.
You have the best cook
in the whole world?
Yes.
Oh, then we must come to you
for dinner instead.
See you tomorrow.
Toodle-pip.
I've got some good news
and some bad news.
What's the good news?
We're not going
to King and Queen Marigold's
for dinner tomorrow.
ALL:
Hooray!
What's the bad news?
They're coming here.
ALL:
Oh, no.
What are we going to do?
King and Queen Marigold
will want to eat
something special.
Luckily, we have the best cook
in the whole world.
Nanny Plum.
Oh, heh,
thank you, Your Majesty.
What about baked potato
stuffed with potato
with chips and mash
and a fried egg on top.
No, Nanny.
They will want
special modern food.
I can cook porridge.
That's not modern food.
What is modern food,
Mommy?
It is very delicate food
in tiny portions.
I can do tiny portions.
[WAND TINKLES]
Well done, Nanny.
That is small.
Of course,
it will get bigger
when the magic wears off.
When is the magic
going to wear off, Nanny?
Um, about now.
[STOMACH RUMBLING]
[BELCHES]
Excuse me.
[CHILDREN LAUGHING]
It's not just the size
of the food, Nanny.
Modern cooking is fussy.
No problem.
Nanny has
until tomorrow evening
to come up with something.
Uh... Yes, Your Majesty.
Good. That's that sorted.
Nanny,
what are you going to do?
Uh, I don't know.
[♪♪♪]
[BELL RINGS]
Morning, Holly.
You coming out to play?
No, Ben.
I need to help Nanny
learn how to cook.
But Nanny Plum
is a very good cook.
She is the best cook
in the world, Ben.
But she can't cook
modern food.
Why does she need to cook
modern food?
It's what King
and Queen Marigold like.
And they're coming to dinner
tonight.
What Nanny needs
is a cookbook.
Come on.
Wait for me.
[♪♪♪]
Where are we going?
The Great Elf Library.
Whoo!
[LOUDLY]
Excuse me, Wise Old Elf.
Shush. This is a library.
[WHISPERS]
Sorry.
We need a book of modern cooking
for Nanny Plum.
But Nanny Plum
is an excellent cook.
Yes, she's the best cook
in the whole world.
[IN NORMAL VOICE]
But she can't do
modern cooking.
Mm. Let's see.
"The Elf Book of Pies."
"The World of Spaghetti
and Mash."
"Complete History
of Egg Sandwiches."
Is there anything modern?
What exactly is modern cooking,
Princess Holly?
It is food that's
very delicate and special.
And not porridge.
Oh.
Wait a minute.
This doesn't look
like an elf book.
That's because I'm not.
Aah! A magical fairy book?
What's that doing
in my elf library?
There are no words
in the book.
I am a magical cookery book.
Where are all your recipes?
Oh, you tell me
what you want to cook,
I will tell you
how to cook it.
We want to cook
a special modern meal, please.
How modern?
Uh, very modern.
Certainly.
You will need
the following ingredients.
Potato, carrot, onion,
peas, and cheese.
That doesn't sound
very special.
Shush. I am thinking.
Voila.
One recipe
for a very modern meal.
BOTH:
Hooray!
Shh. This is a library.
Can I borrow this book,
Wise Old Elf?
You can keep it,
Princess Holly.
Fairy books do not belong
in the elf library.
Thank you.
[FANFARE PLAYING]
[BELL RINGS]
King and Queen Marigold.
How lovely to see you.
Hello, darling.
It's always a pleasure
to visit your Little Kingdom.
[CHUCKLES AND SNORTS]
I hope you're hungry.
Nanny's been in the kitchen
all day.
We haven't eaten a thing
since breakfast.
We didn't want
to spoil a dinner
made by the best cook
in the whole world.
I wonder if baked beans
are modern?
Nanny, we've got
a magic cookbook.
Hello, Nanny Plum.
Oh, you found my cookbook.
Where was she?
She was in the elf library.
What were you doing
in there?
I was getting very bored.
[KIDS GIGGLE]
The book knows a recipe
for a modern meal.
Oh, good.
What are the ingredients?
A potato, a carrot, an onion,
some peas, and cheese.
But that's
what I would normally cook.
Yes. The ingredients are simple,
but the way we cook them is not.
Now, boil a pot of water.
[♪♪♪]
Chop potato, carrot, onion,
peas, and cheese.
And put them into the pot.
Boil for one minute
and then collect
the steam
and serve.
HOLLY:
Is that it?
It is a very delicate dish.
[♪♪♪]
It's so good of you to have us
at such short notice.
No trouble at all.
We can't wait to see
what the best cook in the world
cooks for dinner.
[STOMACH RUMBLING]
Oh, sorry. That's my tummy.
I'm just so looking forward
to this lovely meal.
[CHUCKLES AND SNORTS]
[GONG RINGS]
Dinner is served.
Enjoy your meal, Majesties.
[SLURPING]
Oh, yes.
Such a delicate flavor.
So subtle.
Nanny?
Your Majesty?
What's this called?
Cloud of vegetable soup.
It's just steam.
Such a sensitive dish.
[SLURPS]
Mm. How wonderful.
I can barely taste it.
Does it come
with any potatoes?
Uh... No.
Nanny, I'm hungry.
KIDS:
Me too.
No problem.
These leftover potatoes,
carrots, onions, peas and cheese
have made a lovely soup.
ALL:
Ooh. Yummy.
[ALL SLURPING]
Um, this steam is delicious,
of course.
But will there be anything else
to follow?
Yes. Even though
it's very filling,
I could eat
a tiny something more.
I could eat a lot, lot more.
[SNIFFING]
What's that lovely smell?
It's coming
from the kitchen.
[SLURPING]
This is delicious, Nanny.
Mm. It's the best.
I say, what's this?
It's just the children's
supper.
It smells very nice.
It's only some soup I made
from the leftovers.
It's not very modern.
You wouldn't like it.
Could I try,
just a little bit?
[SLURPING]
The taste is so tasty!
Can I try some too?
And me.
[♪♪♪]
[ALL SLURPING]
Oh, yes.
So filling. Heh.
Marvelous, Nanny.
[CLEARS THROAT]
I have an announcement
to make.
Nanny Plum is indeed
the best cook
in the whole world.
[LAUGHS]
Thank you very much.
Now, what would everyone
like for pudding?
Something modern
or my treacle pudding?
ALL:
Treacle pudding.
[ALL LAUGHING]
[♪♪♪]